README.md, before:

# How is my country doing?

This is a template site for comparing data of pandemics progression between places.

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes. See deployment for notes on how to deploy the project on a live system.

### Prerequisites

The site is built with [Python 3](https://www.python.org/downloads/).
We use also [Pipenv](https://github.com/pypa/pipenv) to manage or dependencies.

### Installing

To run your project local:

Install the dependencies

```
pipenv install
```

Configure your `.env` file. This repository comes with an example config

```
cp .env.example .env
```

Enter the Pipenv virtual env

```
pipenv shell
```

Configure your database
```
pipenv run flask migrate up
```

Run the application

```
pipenv run flask run
```

Access http://localhost:5000 (or to the other port configured on your .env file) to see the running site.

### Templates structure

The project provides pré-built pages structures and components, inside the `app/templates` folder.

To start a new page you can rename the example page at `app/templates/pages/page.html.jinja`.

## Data

The project provides an interface to import pandemic data into the database.

You can do so with the command

```
pipenv run flask data load path/to/file.csv
```

The command will take the file csv data and add to the `Country` and `CountryStatus` tables.

Note the command by default will only append new data, not update or delete previous data.

But you can pass the `--override` flag to erase all previous data before importing.

The file content format is

```
'Country Name', 'Date', 'Total', 'Day' (days since beginning of the pandemic), 'TotalDeaths', 'TotalPer100k', 'TotalDeathsPer100k', 'DayNorm' (days since country's 10th death, 'GrowthRate' (increase factor from previous day), 'GrowthRateDeaths', 'DaysToDouble' (number of days to double cases based on current rate), 'DaysToDoubleDeaths', 'WeeklyGrowth' (percentage of growth in the previous 7 days), 'WeeklyGrowthDeaths'
```

## Translations

To contribute to the translations section follow the steps:

### Markdown

To markdown text to translation you have to use the `_l()` and `_()` functions from the `flask-babel` library. Use the `_l()` function to mark strings outside a request handler (routes functions or templates). And use `_()` function to mark string inside a request handler

Ex:

`/app/templates/about_us.html`
```
...

<h2>{{ _('The Project') }}</h2>

...
```

`/app/forms.py`
```
from flask_babelex import lazy_gettext as _l
...

submit = SubmitField(_l('Show Report'))

...
```

### Translation and localization

To translate added texts, first we need to update the translations folders with the command:


```
pipenv run flask translate update
```

Now access the `messages.po` file corresponding to the language you want to translate. Their are located on the folder `/translations/<language>/LC_MESSAGES/`
Place under the text on English the translation.

Ex:

`/translations/pt_br/LC_MESSAGES/messages.po`

```
...

#: app/templates/about_us.html:6
msgid "The Project"
msgstr "O Projeto"

...

#: app/forms.py:11 app/forms.py:16
msgid "Show Report"
msgstr "Mostrar Relatório"

...
```

### Compiling

To compile all translations and effect all changes, just run the command:

```
pipenv run flask translate compile
```

## Authors

The people behind the site are:

- Guilmor Rossi
- Luca Almeida
- Luiz Celso Gomes Jr
- Nicole Kobayashi
- Vitor Corrêa
- Zulmira Coimbra

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details

Commit message:

Adding Docker configs and gunicorn

README.md, after:

# How is my country doing?

This is a template site for comparing data of pandemics progression between places.

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes. See deployment for notes on how to deploy the project on a live system.

### Prerequisites

The site is built with [Python 3](https://www.python.org/downloads/).
We use also [Pipenv](https://github.com/pypa/pipenv) to manage or dependencies.

### Installing

## Using Docker

We recommend using [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) to facilitate the configuration of the project.

After [installing the Docker engine](https://www.docker.com/get-started), you can run

```
docker-compose up -d
```

and access http://localhost:5000 once the building process is finished (Notice: this can take a while depending on how much resources you enabled for Docker).

Also, you can change the port for the application and database connection on the `docker-compose.yaml` file

## Using Pipenv

To run your project local:

Install the dependencies

```
pipenv install
```

Configure your `.env` file. This repository comes with an example config

```
cp .env.example .env
```

Enter the Pipenv virtual env

```
pipenv shell
```

Configure your database
```
pipenv run flask migrate up
```

Run the application using the flask webserver

```
pipenv run flask run
```

Or using gunicorn WSGY

```
pipenv run sh ./gunicorn.sh
```

Access http://localhost:5000 (or to the other port configured on your .env file) to see the running site.

### Templates structure

The project provides pré-built pages structures and components, inside the `app/templates` folder.

To start a new page you can rename the example page at `app/templates/pages/page.html.jinja`.

## Data

The project provides an interface to import pandemic data into the database.

You can do so with the command

```
pipenv run flask data load path/to/file.csv
```

The command will take the file csv data and add to the `Country` and `CountryStatus` tables.

Note the command by default will only append new data, not update or delete previous data.

But you can pass the `--override` flag to erase all previous data before importing.

The file content format is

```
'Country Name', 'Date', 'Total', 'Day' (days since beginning of the pandemic), 'TotalDeaths', 'TotalPer100k', 'TotalDeathsPer100k', 'DayNorm' (days since country's 10th death, 'GrowthRate' (increase factor from previous day), 'GrowthRateDeaths', 'DaysToDouble' (number of days to double cases based on current rate), 'DaysToDoubleDeaths', 'WeeklyGrowth' (percentage of growth in the previous 7 days), 'WeeklyGrowthDeaths'
```

## Translations

To contribute to the translations section follow the steps:

### Markdown

To markdown text to translation you have to use the `_l()` and `_()` functions from the `flask-babel` library. Use the `_l()` function to mark strings outside a request handler (routes functions or templates). And use `_()` function to mark string inside a request handler

Ex:

`/app/templates/about_us.html`
```
...

<h2>{{ _('The Project') }}</h2>

...
```

`/app/forms.py`
```
from flask_babelex import lazy_gettext as _l
...

submit = SubmitField(_l('Show Report'))

...
```

### Translation and localization

To translate added texts, first we need to update the translations folders with the command:


```
pipenv run flask translate update
```

Now access the `messages.po` file corresponding to the language you want to translate. Their are located on the folder `/translations/<language>/LC_MESSAGES/`
Place under the text on English the translation.

Ex:

`/translations/pt_br/LC_MESSAGES/messages.po`

```
...

#: app/templates/about_us.html:6
msgid "The Project"
msgstr "O Projeto"

...

#: app/forms.py:11 app/forms.py:16
msgid "Show Report"
msgstr "Mostrar Relatório"

...
```

### Compiling

To compile all translations and effect all changes, just run the command:

```
pipenv run flask translate compile
```

## Authors

The people behind the site are:

- Guilmor Rossi
- Luca Almeida
- Luiz Celso Gomes Jr
- Nicole Kobayashi
- Vitor Corrêa
- Zulmira Coimbra

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details
